# JSON Diff Checker

## Table of Contents

1. [Description](#description)
2. [Requirements](#requirements)
3. [Installation](#installation)
4. [Usage](#usage)
    - [Example Usage](#example-usage)
5. [Command Line Options](#command-line-options)
6. [Script Functions](#script-functions)
7. [Contributions](#contributions)
8. [License](#license)

## Description

This Python script compares JSON files in two directories corresponding to different versions of a project. It uses `json-diff` to find differences between JSON files from the current version and the next version. The results are saved to a specified output file.

**The script assumes that directory names and file names are consistent, differing only by version number.**

## Requirements

- Python 3.6 or higher.
- [json-diff](https://github.com/andreyvit/json-diff) installed on your system

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/idb_antonioalanis/json-diff-checker.git
    ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

    ```bash
    cd json-diff-checker
    ```

3. Install dependencies (if using a virtual environment):

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

4. Make sure you have `json-diff` installed. You can install it via `npm`:

    ```bash
    npm install -g json-diff
    ```

## Usage

To run the script, use the following command in the terminal:

```bash
python json_diff_checker.py --version <version> --next_version <next_version> --first_version_folder_name <folder_name> --output_filename <output_file>
```

- `--version` (required): The current version to compare.
- `--next_version` (required): The next version to compare.
- `--first_version_folder_name` (required): The name of the folder for the first version. The folder name for the next version will be automatically generated by replacing the version number.
- `--output_filename` (optional): The name of the output file (default: `output.txt`).

Replace `<version>`, `<next_version>`, `<folder_name>`, and `<output_file>` with the appropriate values for your case.

### Example Usage

Suppose you have two directories: `/folder-v1` and `/folder-v2`. Each of these directories has three `.json` files:

```
/folder-v1
  ├── file_1_v1.json
  ├── file_2_v1.json
  └── file_3_v1.json

/folder-v2
  ├── file_1_v2.json
  ├── file_2_v2.json
  └── file_3_v2.json
```

You want to compare the JSON files in the `/folder-v1` directory against those in the `/folder-v2` directory. You can run the script as follows:

```bash
python json_diff_checker.py --version v1 --next_version v2 --first_version_folder_name folder-v1 --output_filename differences
```

After running the script, the `differences.txt` file captures the key differences between the `v1` and `v2` versions of each of the three `.json` files, clearly highlighting the changes made between versions.

```
file_1_v1.json | file_1_v2.json

  {
+   "property": "new_value"
  }

---

file_2_v1.json | file_2_v2.json

  {
+   "property": "updated_value",
-   "property2": "old_value",
  }

---

file_3_v1.json | file_3_v2.json

  {
+   "property1": "new_value1",
-   "property2": "value2"
+   "property3": "new_value2"
  }
```

- For `file_1_v1.json`, a new property has been added in version `v2`.
- In `file_2_v1.json`, an existing property has been updated from "old_value" to "updated_value", and another property has been removed.
- For `file_3_v1.json`, one property has been updated, one has been removed, and a new one has been added in version `v2`.

## Contributions

If you would like to contribute to the project, please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix (`git checkout -b feature/new-feature`).
3. Make your changes and commit them following the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) format (`git commit -m 'feat: add new feature'` or `fix: correct a bug`).
4. Push your branch to the remote repository (`git push origin feature/new-feature`).
5. Create a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.